Description:

Smart (in-Situ MApReduce liTe) is a MapReduce-like framework originally designed for in-situ scientific analytics.
To maximize the performance in different in-situ scenarios, it can support two different in-situ modes: space sharing and time sharing.
Space sharing mode aims to minimize the memory consumption of analytics, by avoiding extra data copy of simulation output, i.e., time step. This mode is generally preferred.
Time sharing mode can support concurrent simulation and analytics on two separate groups of cores of each node.
This mode can be more useful when simulation task reaches a scalability bottleneck with the given resources.
In addition, offline analytics for disk-resident data (in NetCDF/HDF5 format) is also supported.
All these modes can be switched flexibly with the same analytics code (similar to a MapReduce job).



Setup Tips:
1. To compile the source code, C++11 should be supported. The version of GNU compiler should be at least 4.8.
If the Intel compiler is used, then some minor modification on C++11 syntax may be required (e.g., inheritance of constructor). The version of Intel compiler should be at least 14.0.

2. Before running any application, the user should check if the OpenMP version is newer than 3.1.
Setting CPU affinity can easily gain a 10X speedup.
This can be achieved simply by setting an environment variable in the bashrc/bash_profile file:
  export OMP_PROC_BIND=true

3. Since both Scheduler and User Application Classes are template classes, if any header file is modified, "make clean" is required before recompilation.

4. To make a MIC binary, the compiling flag "-mmic" should be added.

5. To compile on a MIC cluster, the user should use "-openmp" rather than "-fopenmp" to enable OpenMP on a MIC cluster.
Otherwise, the thread level in OpenMP cannot be controlled on MIC nodes.



Usage:
1. If each data chunk corresponds to a single key, call the "run" function.
Otherwise, if each data chunk corresponds to multiple keys, call the "run2" function.

2. If the output layout is fixed, and the output array can be allocated in advance, then the user can specify the output array address to the "run"/"run2" function.
Otherwise, the user needs to transform a global combination map to a final output manually.
Global combination map is combination_map_ on the master node, and it can be retrieved by calling the function "get_combination_map".

3. 4 (pure) virtual functions are required to be overwritten for all applications:
1) "gen_key" or "gen_keys": generates key(s) given the unit chunk;
2) "accumulate": accumulates the unit chunk on a reduction object;
3) "merge": merges the first reduction object into the second reduction object, i.e., a combination object;
4) "deserialize": deserialize a user-defined reduction object. For a copiable reduction object that does not contain any reference-type data, the implementation is trivial.

4. 3 virtual functions may need to be overwritten optionally for some applications.
1) "process_extra_data": processes the extra input data to help initialize the combination map if necessary;
2) "post-combine": performs post-combination processing if necessary;
3) "convert": converts a reduction object to an output result if necessary.

5. Run commands in time sharing mode:
1) Using mvapich2:
Unless global combination is not required, make sure that MV2_ENABLE_AFFINITY is set as 0.
Otherwise, the thread level cannot be controlled.
Example command -- run an application with 8 MPI processes by using mvapich2:
mpirun_rsh -hostfile ./[hostfile] -np 8 MV2_ENABLE_AFFINITY=0 KMP_AFFINITY=warnings,compact ./[program]

2) Using impi:
Example command -- run an application with 8 MPI processes by using impi: 
ibrun.symm -m [program]

6. For the offline analytics, a format-specific partitioner should be used before Smart scheduler is launched.
To process the disk-resident data in other formats, the user can create a customized partitioner class by specializing a "partitioner" class. 
Since the input of a Smart scheduler is a 1D array, for any multi-dimensional disk-resident array data, by default it is partitioned along the highest dimension into multiple 1D arrays. 



Examples:
3 sets of example analytics applications are provided in the folder "examples", and each applicaiton can run in 3 different modes.
Particularly, the following applications are provided:
1) Histogram;
2) K-Means;
3) Logistic Regression;
4) Window-Based Applications.

Histogram:
Make sure the value of STEP in histogram.cpp is 1.

K-Means:
Make sure the value of STEP in kmeans.cpp and the value of NUM_DIMS in kmeans.h are equal.

Logistic Regression:
Make sure the value of STEP in logistic_regression.cpp and the value of NUM_COLS (NUM_DIMS + 1) in logistic_regression.h are equal.

Window-Based Applications:
To improve the efficiency by supporting early emission of reduction object in the RedObj class, the trigger function should be overwritten.
Moreover, the user should call the run2, not run function, to launch the data processing.
Since these applications mostly serve as a pre-processing step in a certain analytics pipeline, global combination should be typically disabled in this case.



Possible improvements:
1. The key data type of reduction/combination map can be a string for better applicability, but this will increase the complexity of global synchronization, since string-type data does not have a fixed size.
Keys of integer type can already meet the needs of most scientific analytics.
2. Reduction object can be defined as a protocol buffer, to facilitate serializing variable-length data members (e.g., string type) in distributed environment.
3. The offline analytics currently cannot work for massive arrays, since the number of array elements may overflow the size_t range.
Besides, currently each partition is fed to Smart scheduler in one time, so this simple implementation requires that each partition should be smaller than the memory size. 